# Projects and Independent Research

Beyond strictly physics, I have invested a bit of time working on various computer science and optics projects. This page serves as a summary of a few of my favorite creations. 

## 3D Printed Thorlabs Replicas

Since my freshman year of highschool I have slowly been building my own optics lab. What started as a Michelson-Morely interferometer made of LEGOS has become an amateur optics table with a mix of Thorlabs, Newport, and various custom 3D printed and CNC machined parts. For several years I reached out numerous optics companies inquiring about any damaged or returned parts, as well as finding retired startup labs willing to sell equipment for a fraction of its cost. Eventually I decided to learn how to make my own parts. Most of the experiments I've conducted relate to flourescence and launching fiber cables, though simply practicing alignment or measuring interference patterns has provided ample justification for the fabrication of my own mounting systems. Below are a few pictures of some of the parts I built including my own posts, cut and tapped, 3D printed post holders and kinematic mirror mounts, and some custom fiber launching connectors. 

## RemBRanDT (Remote Base-Range Data Transformer)

Originally refered to as my "Not-a-bomb" project, this mobile radio computer takes inspiration from the cyberdeck community. At the beginning of 2024 I started working on the concept by printing out the blue prints of a Pelican 1200 case and laid out the various components I intended on including. Despite very much being a work in progress still, RemBRanDT currently has functional radio and GPS capabilities. It also features a switch-connected RF I/O patch panel and a dedicated intranet router for hosting on board archives including all of Wikipedia in English, the entire Gutenberg online library, and select Stack Exchange threads. The primary intended use of RemBRanDT is to have an all-in-one go box for emergency communications and archival hosting in any kind of LOS situation. 

## GPS in an Altoids tin

As a college student, budgetting for hobbies requires some purchases to wait. In light of this, I've made it several years backpacking without a proper GPS, though it's all thanks to the use several maps and a GPS device that I built in an altoids tin. When it comes to navigation, altitude, latitude, and logitude, accompanied by a paper map, can almost completely compensate for the lack of a several hundred dollar GPS. And, by using a simple Raspberry Pi Pico microcontroller, the whole setup ends up costing around $20. The trickiest part of this project was finding a way to accurately sample the GPS location while conserving battery. Additionally, I started with a very cheap 128x32 pixel screen which limited me to three lines of text. Ultimately, thanks to the speedy fixing time of the GPS module used, the device can be turned off until exact coordinates and elivation are needed. With sporadic use, this allows the 300MAh battery to last for a few days without any problems. 

## Parametrics and Chord Theory

After messing around with complex jazz chords while studying Fourier Analysis in class, various unexpected connections between the two become apparent. A couple years ago a friend introduced me to the world of Modular Synthesizers, which lead me down the path of Modular Synth Rack software such as [VCV Rack](https://vcvrack.com/). The learning curve was steep and by no means something I'd claim to have mastered, though, it provided the perfect tools to study the harmonics of true chords. By this I'm refering to the latter of two fundamental types of tuning: equal temperment and just intonation. 

In almost all of western music, distances between notes are determined by a set division of one octave. Today, people mostly use 12 tone equal temperment. In this system, intervals such as a major third or a fifth are not perfectly aligned with their respective mathematical harmonic. Just intonation, however, aims to establish intervals relative to a set tone in a given chord, rather than an equal division within an octave. By generating pure tones with a digital synthesizer and plotting their pi/2 offset on an oscilliscope, one can see for themselves how delicate harmonics are; two frequencies perfectly tuned producing a still set of parametric curves, or the slightest difference in frequencies causing harmonic oscillation. 